.\"	ree.c - ree(1) source code
.\" ree - the round-robin style tee(1) - (C) 2013-2014, Timo Buhrmester
.\" See README for contact-, COPYING for license information.  */
.\"
.Dd Mar 5, 2014
.Dt REE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ree
.Nd round-robin style tee(1)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl asSfhV
.Ar  file1 file2 ... fileN
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility works like tee(1), except that, instead of writing each line
to to
.Em all
given files, output is distributed in a circular fashion.
.Pp
This means, the first line read will be written to
.Ar file1 ;
the second one goes to
.Ar file2 ;
the N-th one goes to
.Ar fileN ;
the (N+1)-th line again hits
.Ar file1 ,
and so forth.
A file name consisting of a single dash ``-'' is interpreted
as standard output, and may appear more than once in the list
of outputs.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
Append to the files rather than overwriting (truncating) them.
.It Fl s
If one or more of the output files can not be opened for writing,
ignore those.  The default is to terminate with an error message.
Even with this option, if 
.Em none
of the output files can be opened,
.Nm
will terminate.
.It Fl S
If a write error occurs while writing to one of the output files,
disregard that file and continue with the remaining outputs, if any.
If no files remain
.Nm
terminates successfully.
Without this option, 
.Nm
terminates unsuccessfully when the first write error occurs.
.It Fl f
Explicitly flush the output stream after writing each line.
.It Fl h
Print a usage statement to standard output.
.It Fl V
Print version information to standard output.
.El
.Pp
The following operands are available:
.Bl -tag -width "file1 - fileN"
.It file1 - fileN
N pathnames of output files
.Em ( N
\*[Ge] 1).
A pathname consisting of only a single dash (``-'') refers
to standard output.
.El
.Sh SIGNALS
The
.Nm
utility takes the default action for all signals.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success, and \*[Gt]0 if an error occurs.
The two cases considered to be success are
.Bl -tag
.It -
EOF on standard input
.It -
.Op Fl S
was given and all outputs have failed (but at least one initially worked). 
.El
.Pp
All other cases are considered failure.
.Sh FILES
None.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tee 1
.Sh AUTHORS
Timo Buhrmester <van.fisted@googlemail.com> (program and this man page)
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility appeared in 2013 and was polished for release in 2014.
.Sh BUGS
None known.
.Sh STANDARDS
None.
